PORTAL OF WORLDS: PLAYER'S GUIDE


GEOGRAPHY

Our adventure begins in the world of Exandria, on the continent of Wildemount, on the edge of
the southwesterly Menagerie Coast, at the tip of a penninsula in a vacation paradise called
Palma Flora.

The village of Palma Flora is known for its vibrant green foliage, its competitive
shark-hunting tournaments, and a sweet cocktail that shares the village's name. Your party,
alone or together, has ended up there for one of the annual tournaments, a charming and not
overpopulated affair for those willing to travel to out-of-the-way places for rarer
experiences.

Palma Flora has a larger mainland city proper, and, a much smaller adjacent island, Flora Isle,
connected by bridge, where tourists and competitors cluster.

Much of the rest of the adventure will center around the eastern part of Wildemount, in a
region known as Xhorhas. This warped and wild land was the realm of evil Betrayer Gods during
an era known as the Calamity, when Gods roamed the Earth and fought for dominion.

The northern region of Xhorhas is ruled by the Kryn Dynasty. The Dynasty was founded by the
Bright Queen, a drow named Leylas Kryn, who remains in power centuries later. It has expanded
over time, bringing the monsterfolk of Xhorhas within its borders, and converting them to
worshipping an entity known as the Luxon.

The main settlements within the Dynasty are the following:

- Rosohna: The capital, "Rebirth" in the language of the drow, built upon the ruins of the
former stronghold of the Betrayer Gods, Ghor Dranas.  The drow emerged from the Underdark after
the creation of the Divine Gate.  The city is covered by magical darkness due to the drow's
sunlight sensitivity.  Locals call it Roshanna or Rosh.

- Asarius: The "City of Beasts"; gets its nickname from being the hub for monsterfolk civilization.

- Urzin: A roving settlement built upon the backs of giant tortoises known as
horizonbacks, that traverse the marshes and lowlands of Xhorhas.

- Bazzoxan: A highly fortified settlement built upon an ancient Betrayer God temple.
The locals call it Bazz or Bazzocks.

- Jigow: A coastal city formed from the amalgamation of orc and goblin villages.
The locals call it Jigsaw.


In addition to these places in Wildemount, you are welcome to seek out other worlds and locations.
A few of the more notable of these:

- the Tal'Doreia continent and its namesake republic, and its famed capital city Emon

- Vasselheim, the Dawn City, Cradle of Faith, Cradle of Creation; the capital of human
civilization on the continent of Issylra. A highly religious city, deeply suspect of arcane magic.

- the Dwendalian Empire to the west.  Its capital, Rexxentrum, is massive -- twice the next
largest, Emon in Tal'dorei -- and brings access to all the worlds' wonders.  To the east of it
are the Ashkeeper Peaks forming the boundary with Xhorhas.

- the Radiant Citadel demiplane, the anchor of thirteen unique civilizations, and home to the
House of Convalescence, a healer's paradise

- the Candlekeep library in Faerun, famous bastion of enlightenment and knowledge.  It houses a magnificent
collection of books and scrolls of lore, considered the greatest collection of writings, anywhere.

- the Yawning Portal, the pathway to Greyhawk, and White Plume Mountain, and the lost Vestiges
Blackrazor, Whelm, and Wave

- the Underdark, a massive underground empire ruled by Drow (dark elves), Duergar (gray
dwarves), Svirfneblin (Deep Gnomes)


WILDEMOUNT POLITICAL ENTITIES

Menagerie coast
- Clovis Concorde - marquis of eight independent city-states, governing body of the Menagerie coast.
  Cities include Port Damali, Port Zoon, Gwardan, Tussoa, Othe, Feolinn, Nicodranas, and Brokenbank.
- the Revelry - the association of pirates from Darktow Isle off the Menagerie coast.

Wynandir 
- Dwendalian Empire - rules over Western Wynandir; western central, Zemni Fields, Marrow Valley
- Cerberus Assembly - 8 mages under the king in the Dwendalian Empire, stole two Luxon beacons from the Kryn Dynasty
- The Myriad - The continent's largest criminal organization, centered in Yrrosa.
   Sworn to keep their syndicate secret by pretending that chapters are just local gangs.  Have
   a sinister and enigmatic reputation.
- The Colbalt Soul / The Monks of - a "distributed library", centered in Rexxentrum -- a network of worshipers of Ioun

Xhorhas
- Krynn Dynasty - the rulers of Xhorhas seek out and recover the Luxon beacons scattered across Exandria
- Children of Malice - Lolth worshipers, spies, and assassins (Spider Queen of the Demonweb pits)

Biting North 
- Tribes of Shadycreek Run - the loose governing coalition of the Greying Wildlands 
- Eiselcross - the site of the crash of the Pre-Calamity floating city-state of Aeor.  A land of artifacts and Chaos magic.



WILDEMOUNT RACES

The Kryn Dynasty is led by drow, and the majority of inhabitants of Dynasty settlements are
monsterfolk such as.  bugbears, goblins, hobgoblins, and orcs/half-orcs, as well as a few
tieflings, humans, and dragonborn. There are many other races that have migrated to the
Dynasty, however, and all are welcomed into the light of the Luxon.

Across Xhorhas there are many tribes of various races.  Goliaths may be found in the mountains
of the Ashkeeper Peaks, for instance, or lizardfolk in the Brokenveil Marsh.  The Iothia
Moorland to the south of the Kryn Dynasty has tribes that include humans, goblins and
orcs/half-ores, with the occasional aasimar or genasi. In southern Xhorhas, halflings inhabit
the Lotusden Greenwood, and dragonborn have built the settlements of Xarzith Kitril and Charis
following the destruction of the great floating city of Draconia a quarter century before.

On the Dynasty's western border, the vast Dwendalian Empire spans central Wildemount. The most
common races within the Empire are humans, dwarves, halflings, and elves/half-clves. Close to
the border between the two nations, there are settlements of gnomes in Hupperdook, ores in
Bladegarden, and dragonborn in Talonstadt.

East of Xhorhas, isolated by the Penumbra mountain range, lies a sparsely populated strip of
land known as Blightshore. This cursed land is warped by elemental energy, and is a safe haven
for outlaws, thieves, and smugglers of various races. Some inhabitants of Blightshore that died
rose again as Hollow Ones. This supernatural gift is described in Explorer's Guide to
Wildemount.

From more distant lands, tabaxi and tortles are native to the southwesterly Menagerie Coast of
Wildemount, and firbolgs to the northern Greying Wildlands. Automatons (warforged), created by
archmages in an era known as the Age of Arcanum, are more recent additions, discovered from
excavations of ancient cities. The magical woodlands of Xhorhas may contain gateways to the
Feywild, through which fairies, harengon, satyr, or owlin travel.


KRYNN RELIGION

The Luxon

Most inhabitants of the Kryn Dynasty worship the Luxon.  The Dynasty have uncovered several
Luxon beacons: large dodecahedron crystals that grant the power of potentiality, known as
dunamis, a school of magic that manifests as control over gravity and time.

Many followers of the Luxon bind their soul to the Luxon beacons, in an act known as
consecution. If they die within 100 miles of a beacon, their soul is ensnared by it, then
reborn in a random newborn, and they regain their memories as they age in their new body. Those
that repeat this cycle of rebirth eventually reach the status of Umavi, a perfect soul.


PRIME DEITIES

Worship of the Prime Deities is permitted within the Dynasty.  These deities are: Avandra, the
Change Bringer; Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon; Corellon, the Arch Heart; Erathis, the Law
Bearer; Ioun, the Knowing Mentor; Kord, the Storm Lord; Melora, the Wild Mother; Moradin, the
All-Hammer; Pelor, the Dawn Father; Raei, the Everlight; the Raven.  Queen, Matron of Death;
and Sehanine, the Moon Weaver.  

Sehanine is also know as Sharess or The Dancing Lady, goddess of festhalls, hedonism, and
sensual fulfillment. Passionate and willful, independent and hedonistic, feline, she encourages
her followers to spread pleasure to all.


BETRAYER GODS

Worship of the Betrayer Gods is forbidden, however there are cults who still do. These deities
are: Asmodeus, Lord of the Nine Hells; Bane, the Strife Emperor; Gruumsh, the Ruiner; Lolth,
the Spider Queen; Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion; ‘Tiamat, the Scaled Tyrant; Torog, the
Crawling King; Vecna, the Whispered One; and Zehir, the Cloaked Serpent.

