
Blackrazor:
+1 to attack/damage
Upon killing a creature with the weapon, gain 10 temp hp.
If striking an undead, take 1d10 damage and heal target for that amount. If you drop to 0 from this, your soul gets eaten by the blade.
Immune to charm/frightened
Still need to feed the sword a soul every three days or so or it gets grumpy.

Wave
+1 weapon
On crit: deal extra 1d10 necrotic damage
Trident of fish command abilities
Telepathy with animals

Whelm
+1 weapon
Fear of the outside remains; disadvantage on attacks/saves/checks while outside.
Range 20/60. When thrown, it flies back to your hand. It does +d8 dmg when thrown, +2d8 vs. giants.
1/d detect good/evil



- JAMES: your visit to the ship was recognized. someone helped you set the fire, and escape.  an associate of Benji Moore.  

- RYAN: the family you're consected from has been on an 800 year mission to save someone stuck, or something lost, since the time of the calamity
        the rosecranz family is associated with the moons, worships the moon weaver.  has very ancient history in these parts.  might have been royalty
        or rich.

- JOSH: you're fairly certain you saw a childhood friend in the city.  a friend of Kirjava.  he called out to you 
        but you weren't able to respond.  he called you the wrong name.

- STEPHEN: there's a feeling.  a spiritual connection.  you'r being drawn in the right direction.

- STAV: you have a special knack for putting pieces togther.  construction.  but more connections are needed.
        such as augury on your braclet and fragments from the right god or gods

---

One character's relative killed Galsariad Ardyth's older brother in a family drama gone wrong. 

Another character suffers visons of a terrible future, and 

Another character was raised by a wolf pack that the Wastewalker clan harried/competed against. 

Another character was lost by the Wastewalker clan and the wolves found her.


JAMES: recognized one ofthe sailors on the ship, the navigator. was on a ship you burnt and deaths occurred

JAMES: triton recognizes the name, asks about father.  recognizes pendant. says sailors are suffering

JOSH: recognize a monster from the pits that murdered.  it calls him the wrong name.  says you look different.


JOSH: you see Kirjava.  no longer a boy.  positively feral. "liberated" the monsters, now part of a pack. says he saw your mother.
      he recognizes the name and clothes.  tells him he knows who killed everyone else in that attack you survived. the Chroma Conclave.

JOSH: family was killed during the Chroma Conclave on Taldorei. 

RYAN: a member of the X has a pendant w/ the family seal.  (is stolen)

STAV: bring the bracelet to a cleric and do augury.  sees that is connects to previous life of RYAN. royal but name lost through marriage.

X: meet a man wandering for the past two decades watching the stars. portents with the Moon.

o-----------------------------o


-- James / Bobby:

father triton noble army
Jace 

run-ins with the Clovis Concord.
caught doing arson on ship
struggle or sailors

Hammertow pendant


-- Josh / Panta: STELMARIA BELACQUA.  Tabaxi Druid Zadash. 

sole survivor attack
press-ganged into military service, left shaken 

boy Kirjava.  "liberate" the monsters confined in the Victory Pit within Zadash's Pentamarket.

missing father. affair w/ aunt.
search for mother.  took on her mother's name

Tabaxi on the Menagerie Coast?  fruitless excursion at Brokenbank, Palma Flora


-- Ryan / Rumblepants Loudbottom

circus

secret child of a wealthy noble family living in Rexxentrum within the Dwendalian Empire

signet ring bearing your true family's seal.

Rosencrantz mother died.  package from Rosenrantz: letter, ring

-- Stav / DRU

researcher he worked with died

searches for links

found a hint to go to the competition

-- Stephen / Adam

witnessed an act of injustice 
corrupt officials abuse their power and oppress the people of a nearby village, 

uncovered a sinister plot to undermine the empire's stability and increase the power of a rival faction.
