

I am Bobbery Squalls. My family consists of two parents and five siblings where I am the
second oldest. My eldest brother followed my father’s lead in serving for the Triton
noble army, while I was far less motivated. My younger sister always followed me around,
though she’d often get me into trouble when we'd be out. One of my younger brothers was
the subject of some unfortunate circumstances at school and after helping him out that
once, he would always ask me for help with his problems. My youngest brothers were twin
toddlers when I left my home.


I left my Triton protectorate because I grew tired of the stuffy elders and their
overbearing ways. I snuck away in the middle of the night prior to my 16th birthday,
when I would have been forced to enlist into the Triton military. I didn't fancy
spending my life fighting sea monsters all my life. Instead, I sought to explore beyond
the ocean seafloor and wanted to learn about these land civilizations I had grown up
hearing about.

Upon reaching the surface, I took residence on the ship Hammertow, under the pirate
captain Jace Slumber for 5 years. Jace was an old tortle who had his early beginnings in
Darktow running a hardware store. Eventually, he built his own ship and now spends his
time ferrying goods between the main continent and his shop, Jace Hardware.

While working aboard the Hammertow, I had many run-ins with the Clovis Concord.
Typically, we were able to pay them off with a few coins, but once they realized where
our cargo was headed, trouble would start. While branded a pirate, Jace rarely displayed
the open defiance of pirates and would often shy away from a fight, opting to lose his
cargo over confrontation. That said, he did his fair share of pilfering from the Clovis
Concord, finding ways to "get back" his costs through clever schemes of taking extra
cargo or tweaking contracts.

On one occasion, I noticed one of the particularly troublesome patrolling ships before
they had spotted us. I snuck aboard and set fire to their rations to distract them while
the Hammertow moved away. In my escape, some of the crew caught a glimpse of my face and
now the captain, Benji Moore, has been hunting me to arrest me for arson. Luckily he's
been too ashamed to report the incident to the rest of the Clovis Concord, so I've
managed to evade him.

The Clovis Concord’s countless laws and mandates remind me of the policies whilst living
under the Triton protectorate. I align much more with the freedom piracy provides,
though I'm wont to avoid senseless killings and prefer to help the suppressed. It pains
me to see common sailors struggle to make a living wage under the highly regulated
ports.

Jace taught me all I know today, but after five years ferrying cargo with him, he told
me to visit the annual shark hunting tournament in Palma Flora. He mentioned that there
should be plenty of unwitting tourists and wealthy Clovis Concord bureaucrats who would
hardly notice a missing coin or two…

P.S. I carry a small pendant, signifying my service aboard the Hammertow and granting me
welcome access to return back to the ship.

