Tabaxi Druid
Folk Hero Background (https://5e.tools/backgrounds.html#folk%20hero_phb).
depressed end of the manic-depression spectrum 

Homeland ⦁ 23 - Marrow Valley
Settlement ⦁ 57 - Zadash

Fateful Moments
 ⦁ 6 - You were the sole survivor when a horde of rampaging monster raided your village or your
 neighborhood. You have proficiency in the Stealth skill or proficiency with martial weapons
 (your choice).

 ⦁ 10 - You were press-ganged into military service, and were left shaken by what you saw on
 the battlefield. You have proficiency with medium armor, shields, and martial weapons. You
 also have a random form of indefinite madness, determined by rolling on the Indefinite Madness
 table in chapter 8 of the Dungeon Master's Guide.
   ⦁ Indefinite Madness
     ⦁ 28 - "I try to become more like someone else I know—adopting his or her style of dress, mannerisms, and name."



A young Tabaxi named Pantalaimon grew up in a quiet neighborhood of druids in the city of
Zadash. Pan lived alone with her mother and father, and mostly kept to herself in her youth.
She was always close to her mother, who loved to play games with her and challenge her to silly
little wagers. Pan always seemed to win their little bets and games, and her mother teased her
that she would pay up later. Pan's father's relationship with both Pan and her mother was often
distant, at best. He seemed generally unhappy within the family, and sometimes Pan noticed a
hint of pain and sadness briefly overcome her mother's warm demeanor at times when he was in a
particularly strong mood. It wasn't until later in Pan's adolescence, when her paternal aunt
moved to the neighborhood, that she saw her father seem genuinely happy.

Pan hoped that the effect of her aunt's arrival would improve her father's relationship with
his family, but if anything it seemed more strained. One day Pan's mother told her that she
needed to leave Zadash for a while. "I won't be back for some time, but I will always be with
you," she said, holding back tears. And then with a smile, she said, "after all, I've wracked
up quite a gambling debt to you."

The sudden departure of her mother left a void in Pan's life. As weeks became months, and then
years, Pan started spending more time with the other youth in her neighborhood and ventured
into the city more often. Frequently she found herself in the company of another young druid, a
boy named Kirjava. She wasn't particularly fond of Kirjava and his so-called ideals, which more
often than not got them both in trouble, but there weren't many others her age and he seemed to
take a keen shining to her. Kirjava was always trying to convince her to help him "liberate"
the monsters confined in the Victory Pit within Zadash's Pentamarket.

One night Pan came home late and heard commotion at her aunt's place. She rushed into her
aunt's home, only to find her aunt and father engaged in passionate intercourse. Her aunt
shrieked at the intrusion, looking mortified. Her father's face betrayed shame for a brief
moment, but quickly turned to anger. Shocked and disgusted, Pan ran into the night and found
herself at Kirjava's home. Feeling confused and reckless, she told him that if he wanted her
help at the Victory Pit, tonight was the night.

Their plan to free the monsters went off without a hitch, but they didn't consider that the
monsters would immediately go on a destructive rampage throughout the Pentamarket. Kirjava
panicked and bolted. Trying to think fast, Pan reasoned that she could lure them to her druid
neighborhood so that the elders could pacify them, hopefully mitigating the damage and loss of
life from the rampage. She succeeded in baiting the monsters, but ultimately her entire
neighborhood was decimated, with no survivors. She noticed her aunt's body among the dead, but
couldn't find her father.

In the aftermath of the incident, Pan was convicted for her role. She expected life
imprisonment, if not death. However a surprising number of locals rallied to reduce her
sentence. Some were grateful for her quick thinking after the monsters attacked, and many took
pity on her for losing everything in the aftermath. Several local activists took the
opportunity to vocalize their opposition to the Victory Pit and the inhumane practices that
occur there. Pan found herself becoming a reluctant folk hero almost overnight.

With public pressure growing for Pan's release, authorities decided Pan's penance would be in
service of the Dwendalian Empire - specifically on the frontlines of the war against the Kryn
Dynasty.

The horrors Pan experienced on the battlefield devastated her. That, along with the destruction
of her home, the revelation about her father, the sudden departure of her mother... it all
began to take a toll on her mental health. And then one day, while the Empire's forces were
regrouping, Pan had a chance encounter with Kirjava. He warned her that her father was still
alive, looking for her, and that he considered Pan responsible for the death of his sister.

Pan couldn't take it anymore. Under cover of night she slipped away from her unit. For a time
she just wandered, a shell of a person. Her tormented mind, aching for some form of comfort,
kept drifting back to her childhood memories of her mother. With no other purpose or meaningful
connections left, Pan resolved to search for her. Whether from the trauma of her experiences,
or perhaps as a coping mechanism for the absence of a maternal figure for so long, Pan
gradually started acting and dressing more like her mother. Eventually she even started
thinking of herself as her mother, and took on her mother's name as her own: STELMARIA
BELACQUA.

Knowing that there were pockets of Tabaxi in the Menagerie Coast, she began her search there.
After a fruitless excursion at Brokenbank, she headed to Palma Flora. Even if her mother is not
there, maybe the setting will allow her the opportunity to find a little peace, at least for a
short while.




-------------


raised in a neighborhood in Zadash that at some point got attacked by monsters.  I stood up to
them, which is why I'm considered a folk hero, but that resulted in everyone else getting
killed.  I actually consider my status as a "folk hero" more of a curse than a blessing, and
would rather not have people singing praises for what maybe I consider to be my biggest act of
foolishness and/or regret.  I was driven to be a Druid to get away from people to some extent.

I also haven't decided if the monster attack happened before or after I was press-ganged into
military service.  I was thinking before; maybe as a direct result of the monster attack I then
got conscripted to fight back against them.  Or maybe the "monsters" were actually Dwendalian
humans raiding my neighborhood (maybe a poor/nonhuman neighborhood, given Zadash is in the
Dwendalian Empire) and then I was forced to fight against the Kryn.  Or maybe the military
service doesn't have anything to do with the conflict between DE and KD.

So yeah, that's kinda where I'm at right now.  I guess the biggest area that I could use your
insight/suggestions on is the military service, particularly who may have forced me into it and
who I was fighting.  But also would like to hear if you think a monster attack in a
neighborhood of Zadash makes sense (if not, maybe that's where I grew up and then moved
somewhere else), and any thoughts on the Folk Hero angle.


