Rumblepants Loudbottom
----------------------

Heroic Chronicle Fateful Moments:

While on a long journey, you were picked up by a traveling circus, spending a year with them
before returning to your home. You have proficiency in the Acrobatics or Performance skill
(your choice) and proficiency with the disguise kit.

You received a letter revealing that you were the secret child of a wealthy noble family living
in Rexxentrum within the Dwendalian Empire. They enclosed 100 gp to ensure your safe passage to
the imperial capital, and a signet ring bearing your true family's seal.


Parentage

Umak Loudbottom was a warrior of the nomadic Loudrocks clan that roved the wastes of central
Xhorhas.  In his early years, his tribe was subjugated by the Kryn Dynasty to their north.  The
Kryn settled the Loudrocks in a village in an attemt to civilize them and stop them from
raiding the towns along the southern edge of their territory.  Umak resented the Kryn.  The
settling of his clan happened just before he was to come of age and become a warrior in his
clan.  In his mind their "civilization" sought to prevent him from becoming a true orc.  In an
act of rebellion, he gathered a group of like-minded individuals and began raiding again.

On one of these raids, he managed to kidnap a beautiful young human woman named Dita
Rosencrantz.  During the raid of her village Umak heard Dita singing and was entranced.  He
followed her voice and found a beautiful woman with long red hair.  He brought her back to his
village and set her up in his family home.  Dita was a gentle soul who was kind to everybody
regardless of how they treated her.  And she was a lover of music who played several
instruments and had an enchantingly beautiful singing voice.  Her kindness had a great effect
on Umak who stopped raiding and started caring more for those around him.  Eventually Dita
began to return Umak's affection and they were married.

Birth

The next year they bore their first child.  It was a difficult labor that Dita did not survive.
Her son was still in the womb when Dita passed on.  The midwife immediately cut open her belly
and delivered the boy.  After wrapping him up in a blanket he still hadn't uttered a sound.  To
elicit a cry, the midwife hung him upside down and spanked him on the bottom.  He emitted his
first sound, which as his father would say, was a cry from the wrong end.  That sound coupled
with his late mother's family name earned him the name Rumblepants.

What they didn't know is that Dita was bound to the Luxon.  One of her pregenetors had gone
through the consecution.  She was, in fact, the fourth reincarnation of that soul.  The
incarnation before her had lived to an old age and had achieved a state of achess.  He chose to
ritualistically end his life as his grand niece was being born hoping to inhabit her body.  But
the luxon chose a different child for his soul to inhabit, that of Dita Rosencrantz.  Dita had
only just started anamnesis when she was kidnapped, and never learned of her lineage.  Upon her
death, the luxon chose to pass the soul to the child she died birthing.

Early Childhood

The death of his beloved Dita broke Umak who immediately returned to his old ways.  His
kindness disappeared and he resumed his covert raids hoping that he would die in combat in
order to relieve himself of the grief he felt over the loss of Dita.  Rumble was left in the
care of his Aunt Mursha, Umak's only sister who was a widow.  She largely ignored Rumble unless
he caused trouble.  She mostly paid attention to her own son Tor.  Tor was a few years older
than Rumble and loved having a younger brother.  But Tor loved to cause trouble and whenever
they got caught, Mursha always believed it was Rumble who was the trouble maker.

When Umak was home, he started to teach Rumble the ways of the orcs, before they were forced to
settle in the village.  Rumble learned to fight, hunt, and how to survive in the wilds.  But he
did not have the brutal nature of an orc.  He was literally his mother.  He was kind and
gentle, and in order to stay away from his Aunt's bad side, he was a quiet child.

Adolescence

When Rumble was 11, he was caught trying to enter the local pub.  He was enticed by the singing
he heard coming from inside.  It was a gutteral sounding music with haunting overtones creating
the melody.  He felt like he had always loved music.  This was in fact the beginning of his
anamnesis.  When his Aunt Mursha showed up to claim him, she made some off-hand remark about
him liking music "just like his mother".  Nobody in his family had every spoken of his mother
before and this comment peaked his interest.  He began to ask questions, but his Aunt was not
very forthcoming and his father became sad and angry whenever his mother was mentioned.

One day while playing in the attic he dug up a few odd shaped cases and a rather large chest.
They were covered in a large dusty cloth and tucked away in the back corner.  The cases
contained a drum, a lute, and a pan flute.  The chest was full of women's clothing and a few
pieces of jewelry.  One of those pieces was a golden skeleton of a dodecahedron on a leather
cord.  When Rumble picked it up, he had a physical reaction to it.  It was like something
inside him had been awoken.  He tied it around his neck and never took it off.  He then picked
up the lute and found that he could play it!  He could remember the chords to songs, but his
fingers didn't yet have the ability to pick them out properly.  And he could remember the words
to these songs as well.  These memories scared him as he had no idea where they came from.  He
continued to practice his instruments in secret for the next couple years.  He also learned to
sing just like the orcs he heard in the tavern when he was 11.

When Rumble was 13, he received a package from someone named Rosenrantz.  His Aunt asked Rumble
what it was about, but he didn't know.  She opened the package and took out a letter, a ring,
and a bank note for 100 gp.  She pocketed the money and began reading the letter.  Rumble
picked up the ring and found it was a signet ring with an unfamiliar symbol on it.  But that
symbol incorporated a dodecahedron, just like the necklace he found.  His Aunt's face turned
white and she stuffed the letter in her apron and refused to tell Rumble what it said.

A week later Umak returned from his raids.  That night after Rumble went to bed, he was awoken
by shouting from the kitchen.  He crept out of his room to find his father yelling at Aunt
Mursha.  He was holding the letter and was furious.  He was blaming her for making Rumble soft,
for refusing to raise him right, and now for trying to get rid of him.  Then he noticed Rumble
standing in the doorway. His fury was then directed towards Rumble.  He called him weak and
pathetic and said he would never be a true orc.  Then again blamed Mursha striking her on the
face and starting to choke her.  Something in Rumble snapped.  He clenched his fists, his
necklace grew warm, and he cast his first spell.  His father's shirt burst into flames.  Rumble
snached up the letter as it fell from his father's hand, then ran to the attic to gather the
instruments and his hunting gear and he fled the house.  As he ran, he heard his father yelling
that if he ever returned, he would kill him.

Wilderness

Rumble spent the next 6 years wandering the wilds.  He largely avoided other people as he found
that he didn't like their company.  They were consistantly mean to each other.  Even when they
were saying something nice, they seemed to be trying to insult or belittle each other.
Besides, when he was alone in the wilds, he could practice his music without anybody hearing
him or criticising him.  He remembered so many songs and he learned to play them all.  Somehow
he felt he was re-learning them, even though he had never played them before.

Every so often he would find he needed supplies of some kind or he would come upon a small town
and decide to spend the night.  He could always pull out his lute and play a tune and the inn
keeper would offer him a room and a meal and the tips he made would pay for his supplies.
Every once in a while there would be a bard troupe in town.  They would call for a song he had
never heard of before, but he could pick up his drum and play along, somehow remembering the
song as they played it.  He never failed to impress.  Sometimes, after he finished a song, some
old timer would come up and say that they hadn't heard that song since their grandmother sang
it to them as a child.  They thought that song had been forgotten.

In one of those towns he met a man who ran a travelling circus.  He offered Rumble a job
playing the pan flute with the pit band.  Rumble was skeptical, but accepted the job.  During
that time one of his fellow minstrals taught him to play the Shawm.  This was different
somehow.  He didn't "remember" it.  He had to work at it every day.  And the songs he learned
weren't "remembered".  He had to play them over and over to work them into his mind.  It was a
new experience for him and he found it very rewarding.  He also befriended one of the acrobats
and eventually fell in love with her.  She taught him a few things about acrobatics as well as
a few other choice skills.  And the man that hired him took him under his wing as a mentee.  He
showed him the business side of the circus which, not surprisingly, wasn't quite on the level.
He learned a few dirty tricks and well as learning theives cant.  But he didn't feel right
scamming people out of their money.  After about a year, his relationship with his mentor and
his relationship with the acrobat both turned sour and he chose to leave before things went
completely wrong.

After leaving the circus having made a few friends, he decide that maybe people deserved
another chance.  He decided to visit a city to see what it was like.  He had never been to a
city before.  He had no idea where the city mentioned in his letter was.  So each time he
stopped in a town, he would ask about the "big city" and listen to the stories they would tell.
Those stories eventually led him to ??? where he finds himself today.

