
Renoa Briskstone needed a helping hand in the lab, and a local factory was trying to get rid of defective combat units.

D.R.U remembers first being powered on, on a day that would look a lot like any other day for the
next 9 years at the small lab in Emon. He remembers the first thing he heard: "Factory settings
reset. How can I assist you?". It took D.R.U. 673 milliseconds to realize he was the one speaking.
In front of him he saw a chirpy female gnome in protective eye wear who introduced herself as
D.R.U.'s employer, "but you can call me Ren if you want".

D.R.U. didn't have fully functional limbs, but he could still carry things for Renoa and do other
chores around the lab, slowly learning about the work she was doing, the way magic can be
harnessed and bound into objects and the power runes had in stablizing that bond.

No one ever came to the lab, except Zanelor, a half-elf wizard friend and collegue or Ren's.
Zanelor was intrigued by D.R.U. from the moment they met and decided his pet project would be
teaching D.R.U. about magic and the world outside the lab.  Over the years, D.R.U. grew very fond
of Ren and Zanelor, and came to think of them as family.

One day, a package arrived at the lab. This wasn't unusual, as the lab regularly received
equipment and supplies. However, as soon as Ren opened the package, a mechanical ticking and
whirring could be heard as Renoa widened her eyes.  D.R.U. reached his hand to try and help her,
but suddenly a silvery mist enveloped him as an explosion engulfed Ren, and he found himself at
the other end of the lab, behind Renoa's  desk, surrounded by an invisible magical barrier.  His
ears still echoed as he ran back to Ren, but it became very clear very fast that nothing could
have survived standing so close to the explosion. Ren was gone.  With the labs in ruins, D.R.U.
rummaged through the only thing still intact - half of Ren's desk that was close enough to be
protected by the barrier. Her personal research notes and journal were in one of the drawers, and
with those in hand, D.R.U. fled the lab as fast as he could.

D.R.U. decided that day that he has to get stronger, so he'll never fail to protect the ones he
cared for again. He didn't know where to find Zanelor, and he also couldn't risk being found out
by whoever sent the bomb.  He knew he needed to rebuild his own body, but the experiments they did
at the lab never lasted long enough to be a permanent solution. Looking through Ren's notes, he
found this:

"The magic we put into automatons doesn't seem to last very long... The power consumption is very
 unstable... Zanelor said there's a certain alloy that could help us modulate power, but he didn't
 really know much about it and I'm not going to Palma Flora for a wild goose chase."

With no better option, he set out to try and complete their research.

---

researcher he worked with died

searches for links

found a hint to go to the competition